Welcome, in this video, we're going to seed our repository
with an initial set of files for our website. Since I have a repository named website,
I figured I would add a bunch of files that are website related.
To do that, I'm going to go over to my browser, and go to "initializr.com";
and you can see how it's spelled, with the last "e" being left out.
This website provides a quick and easy way to jump-start a website;
it has several possible ways of getting started. I'm going to choose "Bootstrap".
We can fine-tune that, but for now I just need a handful of files; I really don't care.
So, I'm just going to go ahead and click "Download it!".
After a few seconds, the initializr zip file will have finished downloading,
so now let's click on that file. On my system,
the Mac will automatically expand out the Zip file when you click on the file.
So, underneath my "Downloads" folder, we have our "initializr" folder,
with all the various contents of that folder.
I'm going to bring all those contents into my website repository.
So, let's return to the terminal, and I'm going to use the bash "cp" command
to copy over all the files. The command syntax is "cp -R" for recursive;
space; and then I preface it with "~", which references my user's home directory;
"/Downloads/ initializr /*", which means everything under "initializr" folder; space; dot.
That first path is the source location, and then the dot is the destination,
which represents the current folder. Once you've done that, verify and then press enter.
Do an "ls -l"; you should see, in addition to our initial set of files,
that we have a new set of files and folders that came over from the "initializr" folder.
If we do a "git status", you can see that Git notices all these files as untracked.
To add them to the index, and to allow Git to start tracking these files,
let's use the "git add" command.
And, to recursively add everything in the current working folder
I'm going to specify dot as my specification for the "add" command.
Now, when we do a “git status”, we see a whole list of files,
some of which are inside of folders, listed as new, which Git is now tracking.
To move forward, let's commit: "git commit -m "Adding initial website files" ".
Press enter, and Git responds with adding all these files.
Let's push these files up to GitHub: type "git push"; and then the first parameter
is the name of the remote to use which is "origin";
space; and then the branch to push up, which is "master".
You may have been prompted for you SSH key phrase;
on the Mac, it's not prompting me because I have that cached in Keychain.
There are ways to do this on Windows as well, but they're a little bit more complicated.
Alright, so if everything went successfully,
you should have the same results I have on my screen, which it just tells me that it
pushed up everything from my local system up to GitHub.
Let's go back to our browser and confirm; so now if I click on the name of my repository,
I have all these files and folders that are now part of my Git repository on GitHub.